this episode of shadow versity actually
has a very cool sponsor it's campfire
Pro now as an author myself I'm very
well aware of how tricky it can be to
keep track of all the fine details of a
story of trying to ride or a campaign
world you're trying to create for
Dungeons & Dragons video games any
number of reasons well it actually
doesn't need to be nearly as difficult
as I found myself and I was keeping
everything in a single text document
campfire Pro offers heaps of features to
help you out in this regard the
character sheets you can make will help
you keep track of character details
their backstories the timeline that
you're creating the individual plot
points of the story you're making and
also you can mark all the plot related
points and location details on one of
your very own maps that you can
integrate into campfire Pro as well and
an extension to that you'll also want to
check out their new world building pack
which gives you a whole host of features
to keep track of the races the cultures
and magic systems magic items religions
philosophies languages all there to help
you out so a very useful tool it's also
fully private and secure on top of all
these other features campfire Pro and
all its features are available for a
one-off purchase of $49.99 and the world
building pack is available for an
additional $24.99 so do away with all
this documents spreadsheets Word files
aren't so hard to look up everything but
keep everything together in its own
easily reference states where everything
you need is at your fingertips and it's
easily accessible so if you want to
check out campfire Pro there is a link
in the description below
[Music]
ratings
I am shad and I'm a very special episode
here for you because I'm holding
something particularly awesome
this is popularly known as the instant
Legolas
invented by good friend of the channel
jürg Sprave a of the slingshot channel
when I saw his invention I was so
intrigued by the the benefits that would
come out of this system if you haven't
seen your X videos okay what it is it is
a basically rapid-fire attachment to a
bug okay the arrows are actually housed
in this inbuilt magazine by pushing the
attachment down it will kind of load in
at the arrow and then when you pull it
back you can aim and shoot and so it's
basically made for not only rapid fire
but also as an aiming assist because
you've ever done traditional archery
which I have aiming is its own unique
kind of beast and so I was so intrigued
by your eggs invention that I actually
wanted to see what would happen if you
attached it to a proper war bow you know
of legitimate draw weight and so I sent
him a war bow okay and if you go over to
his channel you'd be able to see his you
know first kind of experimentations
attaching the silh through this war bow
and how he went shooting it because I
wanted to see if this could have been a
viable thing for a war bow and you're
basically showed that it is now he sent
it back to me
so I can give this a test run figure out
the pros and cons see how well it works
and then also share my thoughts about it
kind of from the background of my
understanding of medieval weapons and
armor would this thing have been adopted
large-scale historically is I'm going to
share my final thoughts towards the end
of this video after I give this a proper
test run now this is a proper warbird
okay I actually have a video on this
channel where I weigh it okay I draw it
and measure its draw distance at about a
29 inch drawer this war bow comes in at
101 pounds alright and then I also had a
go at drawing it myself and I was able
to pull up
back but I'm not able to really draw it
with an arrow and shoot yet I still need
a build up you know the strength to do
it easier and more consistently although
since filming this video I've had a bit
more practice and I can fully draw at
this bar with an arrow attached and
fully drawing it without an arrow has
gotten a lot easier so getting stronger
because this is the next really
intriguing thing about yds design he has
a drawing assist that is inbuilt to this
system now on this one has done it with
rubber bands okay but it's also showing
that you could do it with medieval
technology by adding an additional bow
attachment to the front which is just a
brilliant idea
I love the things that year it comes up
with so this is a very legitimate thing
that could have been built in the
medieval period if someone like you just
lived that time right and invented it
and so I get to test this out with the
drawing assist having tried to draw this
already okay just by itself this war bow
and like I said I was able to draw it
back but for consistent shooting yet I'm
not there yet and so I'm really you know
interested in just trying this out to
see how easy or difficult it is to draw
so I'm gonna do it but because I finding
the sword is already getting away let's
take off the sword and do it just so you
know no accidents will happen so a first
interesting thing is that to knock it
it's going to be taking a measure of
strength already to push this down and
attach it now there's kind of like an
inbuilt safety here
so I need to take this out so I'll be
able to push it all the way down and let
it catch towards the end
all right that's actually not too
difficult but it's that kind of last bit
and now I want to be doing this in one
some really the motions I just want to
catch it alright so now it's on the
string and Jesus yeah this is working
beautifully already that was very smooth
okay so now I'm going to be drawing this
to see how easy or difficult it is
compared to just the pro by itself so
with the drawing is this let's have a
look so like I said up is I was able to
pull this back at a two 100-pound drawer
and you know if you consider that just
you know pulling the bow back and a
drawer needs to have in her Oh on it you
know alright granted I build up to that
but anyway let's try this again
Wow
wow that was so much easier this is
holding back at least 90 pounds but with
whether that string is and I've and I've
weighed this that's actually the
distance of the hundred pound roar to
have a look at my other video for
reference and let's quickly do that
right now you'll see with the image on
the right that it looks like I'm drawing
the string further back but there's a
very important thing that we need to
take into consideration and it's that
the instant legolas actually adds an
additional handle that is behind the
bows shaft this pushes the actual shaft
a little bit further and therefore the
line of the string if we actually move
the shaft of the buoy into my grip and
move the string back at the same rate we
see that the draw distance of the
instant Legolas is actually very close
to my full draw without the instant
Legolas attached even though there is
still a slight difference this is still
very much within this bows 100-pound
crawl length that was so much easier
okay check it out sorry just here it's
like Oh mate this is amazing this is a
hundred beyond bow and I think it is
reducing the draw weight by at least
twenty maybe thirty pounds okay and I
don't even need off grab it so when I
draw it back right see this handle here
I can grab it with this hand and hold it
all together but actually don't need to
do that to get it to full draw but I'll
show you this already I'll just draw it
back okay I'm holding it here like that
like Norma 100 pounds but with the tour
assist I can hold it back without even
grabbing that for a good couple of six
oh my goodness uh-huh and then because I
have that handle I can draw it back grab
it this is a nod you pound is not a bad
Wahlberg know how to get back with one
way amazing oh my goodness sorry I'm
gonna put it down release the string it
and let it reset now because there's no
air isn't it it's caught from my god it
is
oh my glove anyway wow this works
incredibly well
this drawing assist okay cuz seriously
like and you could do this with a
foreword by attachment so you didn't
need rubber so you could do it at the
medical period okay one of the issues
because there's a lot of pros and cons
when you want to consider our war bow
archery heavy you know war bow archery
in the medieval context it's very
effective proven my history but some of
the limitations is the difficulty in
training of people to be added do it
okay there's a reason why the crossbow
was so prevalent historically and I'm
already starting to see that this SIL
war Barrett a CH Minh is combining all
the advantages of a burro and crossbow
together and not in and removing all the
disadvantages in comparison between one
or the other or explain in detail what I
mean later on but let's give this thing
a shoot cuz sir I'm afraid you've gone
mad with power
okay so here yeah the silver bow is
fully loaded has five arrows in the
magazine at the moment and is the very
first time I'll be shooting this now
I've already kind of adjusted my sight
picture for right-sided shooting and
sorry I wonder how that's going to
affect cuz I really shouldn't be trying
to shoot instinctually with this
enticement this allows for sight
shooting I can sight right down you know
the shaft a name like that well you know
when I now the advantage is that
generally when you do sight shooting
it's easier to develop accuracy quicker
okay takes a lot longer to learn how to
aim instinctually which is generally the
type of aiming you do want to develop
you're doing historical medieval archery
like that and so this is one of the
other advantages of using a crossbow
crossbow you can sight when you aim
which means easier to develop accuracy
so let's see if that advantage
translates over to in cyclist so I'm
going to be aiming for the mannequin
with these shots who I've affectionately
named Boromir
all right so uh let's do this we need to
knock it all right now already to five
all right so if I sight down like that
why are this thing has so much power
Binet that release on that was just epic
and of course I was off target cuz I'm
like I just need a yes first time
shooting okay sorry it's gonna be a
couple of things to try and figure out a
sighting of it so anyway that was the
first shot let's see how well the next
one
Floyd's it you saw it go down and
they're pretty straightforward scary how
much power is released uh bad do you
feel it I'm not as things just launched
close to the target and I'm sorry still
adjusting because if I maybe you're
inside because you couldn't do your
natural targeting but um I'm finding I
there actually is a bit of instinctive
aiming meeting here I'm needing to do
here alright so let's do that again
lock it in pull back to you um I I'm
gonna pause there and get my wrist guard
on just in case okay because I think I'm
needing to line this up more and more to
get there there there to try and do like
either I have two options here to
improve my aim at the moment I can
either move it over like that
okay like that keep it down which I
think I can do because if I did like
this places the likelihood the string
hidden my wrist and with this massive
bow that's gonna sting
sorry I'm gonna get my wrist guard just
in case alright so now proper you know
wrist brace on let's do the last shot of
this and then no reload reset and give
it another go
[Music]
speaking of power a handle just broke
off yeah
the handles stop for um for this so you
know how those a handle hold on like
that just broke off there's so much
power in this day as they go all right
so that's not necessary I don't need it
it's certainly helped but looks like I'm
just gonna have to hold it back the
traditional way from here on in I still
missed all right so this time I want to
focus on rate-of-fire aiming it is just
gonna come with practice of course and I
do honestly believe my aim is going to
improve faster with something that I'm
citing then with traditional archery
where I'm trying to learn is synched of
shooting that's just kind of an accepted
reality of the whole situation something
I don't really need a practice too much
is to see how quickly I can loose these
arrows with a wall bow okay the silver
Waldo so let's see how this goes oops
need to keep very nice so we'll start
from there wow this thing has such kick
sorry it's a bit more tricky holding it
you know at bay because I don't have the
handle anymore
so I just with that one I noticed that I
wasn't getting too full draw my aim was
way off in as well
so I don't know how well I'm gonna go
with just working on speed but anyway
let's let's keep
okay get them a little faster let's see
how many we can do it's gonna get
exhausted but of course someone fitter
and stronger than me that wouldn't be
too much of a problem but let's focus
let's trying to do that speed again so
without that handle aiming is a lot
harder because I got to hold the whole
weight of this war bow even with the
drawer assist okay so the drawer assist
let's it off I think this is coming in
around 80 pounds honestly compared to my
70 pound one it's harder to draw this
even with the a me with the drawer
assist and my 70 pound war boy and so
that means trying to line up the shot I
just have to hold it back like it was a
boy I mean there's a hundred pound in
reality so the fact that I can even do
it with a hundred pound is an amazing
achievement with this system but they're
still holding it back which means lining
up and siding a shot not sure I'm gonna
be out achieve in this round of tests
but because of that alright let's just
focus on rate of fire okay let's see I
was going down if I was trying Kennedy
out like whoa
one cool so I was like an arrow or a
boat every two seconds I think which is
crazy for a war by insane Miami was all
over the place don't judge me okay
people are always hyper critical now
these things especially skeptics and
stuff all right aiming or good accuracy
comes with practice alright and I'm
shooting a disadvantage without the
whole heating so I think towards the end
I will just be focusing on trying to get
something hit but like I said right then
that was just a speed test and all the
goodness was at fast all right now the
trick will be in speed of reloading
because that's where you might lose some
of the speed advantage but
has already made a stripper clip for the
box something that holds them all in
line so you could put them in in a row
and then just take the stripper out and
there are sorry Lloyd and if you could
reload that quickly and then try and
develop what the rate of fire would be I
mean with a war boy we're talking about
and I'm not even trained to it that much
to do speed someone can gain a crazy
rate of fire with very minimal training
through this system and so reloading
another four or five bolts ah it's hard
to try and measure how fast that would
be if I was using a stripper clip and so
if I had the mic on my belt I was able
to draw them and just kind of sort them
in like that
bang that's how fast it would've taken
right oh sorry pull it out the stripper
clips oh yeah bang on ready to go so I
think that would probably add but maybe
point two to each arrow maybe if you're
even today maybe less if we're talking
about mount arrows you can shoot in a
minute so that still leaves us around
the you know one error every two seconds
mark on a war boy okay people have tried
to say speed shooting isn't going to be
too effective with a war bow because it
takes too long to draw it well why I'm
actually personally going to be trying
to test that to even with this foe
because if I can get as you know build
up the strength to be able to shoot this
hundred pound as easy as I can do my 70
pound well I can shoot 16 arrows in a
minute with my 70 pound bow now that's
not as I could get a lot faster because
you'll see you know in my test run still
fumbling a bit when I draw it getting it
on the string and so that can even
improve and so would I be able to match
the speed rate of fire just with the bow
by itself without the SIL compared to
the SIL don't know it's going to be done
difficult but even if I could even if
anyone could okay the amount of training
it takes to develop that compared to the
rate of fire I had on my first go at
this this is the first session I'm
shooting this is insane and so one of
the massive advantages of this system is
the fact that you are achieving some
really high level kind of results in
terms of rate of fire and accuracy comes
a time and you'll see how that go
in a really short amount of time
compared to you know on the traditional
bow where you need to train for years to
develop it gonna need to leave that one
they're thinking so what was actually
happening here is that the instant
Legolas was under so much tension from
the high poundage of this body that the
sliding rail portion was actually
getting pushed out of its housing and
was almost popping out completely and if
I kept pushing it it would have actually
popped out and potentially caused an
injury so because unfortunately it was
starting to fail and break apart I had
to stop my tests there but I want to
stress that a proof of concept in your
sill bow attachment has been proven that
this absolutely works and all that is
needed to be able to work consistently
with such a heavy bow would be a bit of
additional reinforcement so it could
hold together is the first time that the
sill has really been put through its
paces on such a heavy bar and by doing
so we are bound to find the limits of
this version of the sill so that is
really unfortunate because I did want to
test this thing to the limit and I guess
you could say I kind of did that because
it has reached its limit and but I
wanted to develop better accuracy try
the speed shooting in to see if I can
get to even a faster rate of fire and I
really think I could have okay we I
reckon we could get this down to maybe
an arrow every one and a half seconds
depending of course I haven't even seen
what the actual time is could have been
a bit more could have been a bit less
but in any regard just with that initial
kind of test were able to see that the
rate of fire was very impressive
and as to accuracy once again that will
come with time okay and there are
inherent advantages with this system
through the sighting method even though
I wasn't able to nail that down with
just the test that I was able to do it
certainly is there the advantages are
there but what are those advantages
specifically because I mentioned towards
the beginning of this video that I
really think the sill
you know war bow attachment combines all
the advantages of a bow and a crossbow
together and to understand that you need
to understand what are the pros and cons
of the bow versus the crossbow in terms
of lethality okay how deadly either one
of these you know weapons are they're
actually about equal and people can
really misunderstand that because
crossbows they have a very high poundage
okay above the 200 so most 300 400 like
they get really really high and people
then assume that the speed in which the
bolt you know leaves the crossbow must
be four or five times as that's you know
faster then that of the arrows loosed
from war by that's actually not really
the case it's very dependent of course
it changes based on the poundage of the
crossbow versus the poundage of the war
bow but there's a big difference which
actually evens the playing field between
a crossbow and a war bow and there's a
thing called the power stroke and so
with this war bow right here the power
stroke is the distance that the this
string it needs to you know move before
it does it stopped okay now and contrast
that to crossbows they're power strokes
actually much shorter which means the
crossbow actually has a shorter amount
of time to accelerate the bolts but it
has a higher poundage to try and
compensate looking at bows the bowstring
has a much longer distance to be our to
impart energy on to the arrow and then
accelerate the arrow because remember
the string it'll start at a speed of
zero and then as soon as you loose it it
starts to accelerate accelerating
accelerating accelerating until it
suddenly comes to an instant stop not
need since of course there's you know a
flex and everything but when the string
goes tight the more distance it has to
travel the more opportunity it has to
impart energy into the arrow
ergo the arrow will go faster this is
the pro and con and so the higher
poundage on a crossbow is kind of
balanced out by the fact that has such a
short power stroke
why don't they increase the power stroke
of a crossbow well it's a matter of
convenience in my opinion I think Todd's
from Todd workshop could actually share
some great insight but if we were to
pretend that this was a crossbow now
have a look at how far the limbs are
extending on either side if I was in IKr
formation I'd begin
tingled knocked up with everyone on
either side has to be very hard to use
on top of a battlements on a castle or
something like that and so it's actually
far more useful far more beneficial to
have the limbs of a crossbow to be
shorter but if their limbs on the
crossbows shorter that also decreases
the length of the power stroke and so to
get a more powerful crossbow then is you
just need to increase the poundage but
then we come to one of the biggest
limiting factors of a crossbow and that
is loading the damn thing because the
poundage is can get so high on crossbows
again to try and compensate for their
short power stroke is that for the
really high poundage crossbows you need
a mechanism to help assist loading it
okay sometimes it gets too full wind
Lass's where you're winding the thing to
get it in okay these are the really
really big ones and so the rate of fire
for you know historical crossbows are
abysmal but they can loose a projectile
in this case a bolt and so a bolt is
basically a shorter arrow if I can get
it out with my gloves on so this is a
bolt because you know shorter is
essentially you know small arrow
crossbows can shoot these of comparable
speeds but to do it you need a loading
assist and therefore the rate of fire is
garbage and so why then do people use
crossbows they're more expensive to
build alright then just an average bow
their rate of fire is abysmal but they
are easier to become accurate with then
with a bow bow takes a lot more training
the other big really big significant
difference between a crossbow and a
regular bow is that with a crossbow you
don't need to be have the actual
physical strength to load the thing if
you're using a loading assisted
mechanism assisting mechanism whether
that's a windlass or a goats foot or
something like that goats what still
takes a bit of muscle but with an
actually known when the sorrel crank or
something like that you don't need the
strength and so to have a unit of bowmen
okay that are shooting you know really
powerful bows it takes years to train
them and it takes years for them to
develop the strength to be able to shoot
them of the high enough power to be
really effective against things like arm
and so the crossbow circumvents most of
that because you can train a person much
quicker to be accurate with a crossbow
and they can be really powerful without
the person needing the physical strength
and so just by breaking this down we've
actually been out of
benefits and detriments to both the bow
and the crossbow what were the benefits
of the crossbow easy to become accurate
you don't need the physical strength of
the RS units benefits of the bow
rate-of-fire big one and the projectile
shot from bows can be just as powerful
detriment time it takes to train to be
out to shoot accurately and the time it
takes to develop the physical strength
to do it now let's have a look at the
SIL here ok what does it overcome the
pros and cons of each one well I do
think it would be easier to devote to
become accurate with the soul than with
instinctive shooting that depending
depends on how much dude but I obviously
needed more training and I was unable to
do the amount needed to really hone in
what my sight picture with this system
here before the things start to break
apart because it just needs me extra
reinforcement but ok I think that covers
it you'd be able to become more accurate
fast out of this system do you need to
develop as much physical strength to get
the power well with a loading assist you
don't need to develop as much strength
to shoot more powerful bows and so it
overcomes two of the detriments that
boys traditionally have and then if you
look at crossbows it really overcomes
one of the biggest problems with a
crossbow and that's in the rate of fire
because you saw how fast this thing was
and sorry then it get takes the
advantages of all the crossbow which is
easy develop accuracy don't need as much
physical strength and it takes the
advantages of a bow which is rate a
fight because this is a thing it's not
to say you can't match these advantages
with traditional archery with enough
training and practice I think you can
ratify as a bit of a but you know just
develop the strength and a knee
everything the advantage of this system
is that you'd be able to equip an army a
unit of men and get them to a similar
level of efficacy rate of fire accuracy
and stuff in a much shorter period of
time until you get the advantages of the
crossbow had but the rate of fire of a
bow so this really does combine all the
benefits of the bow and the crossbow
which is why I think this system is
amazing if you think the cost of making
one of these things would be too high
have a look at some of the crossbows
okay and the sophistication and
complexity that was in their windlass as
their their cranks okay to just load the
things actually think because a lot of
those you know pieces would a need to be
made out of metal and stuff that
the difficulty making those are actually
just as high if not perhaps even a
little bit higher because you could make
this mostly out of wood with some more
reinforcement because I think one thing
we really found out about using a war
bow with this thing is just further
level of reinforcements that's on it at
the moment the war bows too powerful the
shock they are there they're the power
of this thing they're like was breaking
it apart let's try okay but with X
reinforcement solved that would be
completely solved not a problem
an actual fact I probably might be
trying to reinforce this myself
reinforce the rail housing here reattach
a stronger handle or something and give
this another go to get more accurate and
also to really test that rate of fire as
well and just ending off that thought
process I was talking about in terms of
the cost of manufacturing even with the
higher cost of building crossbows large
armies equipped vast amounts of men with
crossbows so it was done historically
already and I think if something like
this if they knew how to build something
like this absolutely because remember
you have the advantage of that power
stroke like with it being so much longer
and unlike you know crossbow where need
to be heard like that you can hold this
vertically and not get in the way of any
other men in your rank and file just
like a boy which is why I think this is
still about you should call this a bow
not a crossbow
because mainly the way you aim your
aiming with it more like a bow and the
the limbs are vertical in respect to
yourself and so there we go this has
been at my detailed thoughts on a review
of the SIL attachment to a hundred pound
war buyer I think it is absolutely
brilliant I think yoga's a bit of a
genius myself and I love it and I
honestly I do think this could have
changed history something like this was
invented back in then I hope you have
enjoyed of course I hope to see you
again as well thank you to your take out
his channel and his videos on the
instant legolas or so because they're
just awesome videos in this especially
you get to see his developmental process
all the changes and the improvements is
made along the way heaps of fun and just
awesome channel as well so please do go
check out the slingshock channel and
once again thank you for watching and
till next time
[Music]
you